note the use of the passive voice he  says it went away as opposed to i  developed increasing tolerance to the  effect of the drug  i'm negative and i'm dark  and i want to do bad stuff i want i want  to hang out my this neighborhood alone  that's dangerous hanging out in this  neighborhood alone right here right he  wants to kill everything he wants to  kill me too i hate myself i'm trying to  kill myself i hate myself a lot i've  been um  i haven't drank i took drugs in six days  and for me that's a miracle  i've been lying to everybody else to  think i was sober but i'm not  it's my sixth day i'm never gonna use  again  [Applause]  [Music]  oh god i'm so tired  [Music]  oh why does this happen  [Music]  [Music]  i sat down with dr joseph habusch who  conducted one of the leading studies on  chs in a public hospital emergency  department  so chs cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome  it was first described in 2004. so what  ends up happening is folks who have been  consuming cannabis for many years start  developing these weird symptoms of  nausea vomiting abdominal pain but  really uniquely all of these patients  had discovered that taking very hot  showers helped their symptoms  cannabis only does good it only does  good because that's what everyone in the  industry wants to think  when you hear about weed you never think  that it can kill you but is that the new  narrative  yes  if it wasn't for marijuana  we wouldn't have chs if it wasn't for  chs then my son wouldn't be dead  in 2016 she started to feel the symptoms  of chs and in 2018 she had her first  major episode  for 14 days all day every day i threw up  non-stop um a small sip of water i was  throwing it up i couldn't hold anything  down  i went to urgent care twice got ivs i  was you know not throwing up when i had  an iv in me but then as soon as urgent  care released me i go home and i'm  throwing up i thought i was gonna die i  was  so frail i couldn't even look at myself  in the mirror i was a skeleton and it  was just like  when is this gonna end the doctor has  recommended that brian abstain from  consuming cannabis and he agreed to do  so for 45 days  after that he began to smoke again and  did not experience major symptoms for  six months but that would soon change  october 23rd i had woken up and brian  was sitting on the couch holding his  stomach and i said bubba you're okay  he started vomiting so i called his  doctor and i  i said  i feel like i'm watching my son slowly  die  my son had lost so much weight you could  see  every bone in his body  and he uh  started grabbing his back  and he said  my back hurts and instantly i thought  his kidneys  so i called 9-1-1  brian was laying on his side facing the  doorway  and  he said mom i can't breathe  so i roll him over  [Music]  and my son's eyes are open  and my son's not breathing  so i start doing cpr  i looked him in the eyes  and i knew he was gone  [Applause]  [Music]  i notice that it's become fashionable in  terms of public science education  for doctors to rely on argument by  analogy what i mean is this  i notice that increasingly doctors will  say with a very flippant  and relaxed attitude that  xanax  is a lot like alcohol all your nerves  relax all the signals between nerves  calm down your body feels calm your  muscles relax does that sound familiar  yeah it's the exact same mechanism that  alcohol hits so yeah xanax is basically  alcohol in a tablet i know that they're  doing this because they're trying to  make something completely  unknown  seem comprehensible to people in the  audience by comparing it to something  they're familiar with the problem is  many people are very likely to respond  to this line of argumentation by  thinking oh well um  alcohol is no problem at all i'm  familiar with alcohol i'm not afraid of  lapsing into alcoholism myself or you  know yeah okay fine it's like oh it's  like alcohol then it's no big deal then  it's safe then it's normal then it's  fine they're not thinking in terms of an  allegory about the effects  on the nervous system they're not  thinking that from maybe from this  doctor's perspective alcohol is the drug  with the highest body count in the  united states of america alcohol kills  more people than heroin in most most  western countries at least you know they  may not be thinking that from the  doctor's perspective alcohol might be  one of the most addictive  habit-forming drugs or they may be  thinking that like alcohol when you go  through withdrawal after you've  developed tolerance or addiction you  have uh  delirium tremens you have go into  physiological shock you're actually in  danger of dying  what the doctor means by the comparison  to alcohol may be something very  troubling and very worrying indeed but  people in the audience  are really going to find this kind of  reassuring to have this drug brought  down to this easy to relate to familiar  level and of course this is done with  allegories to marijuana even more with  people presuming that marijuana  represents something safe or at least  that it's a drug where all of the  negative consequences are uh are easily  manageable now  i rely on allegories of this kind in  politics and history all the time if i'm  talking to someone who really knows  nothing about buddhism  i can start to discuss and describe  buddhism  in terms of its similarities to  catholicism  but pretty soon in that conversation  once i've explained a little bit about  what buddhism as a religion is like and  what it's about and so on at some point  we have to move past the allegory we  have to discard it entirely and say you  know what before i told you that  buddhism historically is similar to  catholicism and this isn't this way but  you know what the truth is  it's something profoundly alien  profoundly new  very difficult for you to understand or  relate to no offense  um  really it's something you shouldn't feel  familiar with or that you should regard  as safe  this is something you should actually  you're actually quite right to feel  apprehensive about and alienated from  because you you really don't know the  first thing about buddhism then we can  take the next step in the conversation i  can i can maybe tell you the first and  the second thing also  there is a sense both in terms of the  objective  chemical science  and in terms of the  subjective experience of what these  drugs are like  there is a sense in which you would  really be well advised to forget any  comparison any allegory comparing  xanax to alcohol and you should regard  it with great trepidation as something  quite terrifying exotic and strange now  i emphasize here there's both an  objective and a subjective  side to the story  i've heard many youtubers  say  that they find the effects of  cocaine  and  the commonly prescribed methamphetamine  adderall  to be identical  now  we can get into the chemistry of what  what objectively are the differences  between adderall and cocaine  but then it might also be worth  explaining why it is for them  subjectively  it seemed identical the high produced by  cocaine seemed to them exactly the same  as the high produced by adderall uh  i have heard people say here on youtube  that they found prescription adderall to  have exactly the same feeling exactly  the same effect as buying  methamphetamine on the street as an  illegal party drug again interesting  subjectively and i think we could find  some people who are experienced drug  users who would say no no no for them  subjectively these were two very  different things that these were three  or four very different things or  experiences for them in terms of how it  felt in terms of how  how it affected them maybe also even  specific things like how it disrupted  their sleep how it disrupted their work  life how it disrupted their sex life so  with all these caveats having been  stated i'd like to challenge you in the  audience to ask yourselves  why is it that marijuana  is not referred to  as a sedative why is it that we think of  this drug as something profoundly  different from  an addiction to sleeping pills  why is it that we think of marijuana as  something profoundly different  from an addiction to painkillers  now  the allegory is always going to be  incomplete it's always going to be in  part instructive and in part misleading  but scientifically speaking objectively  part of the effect of marijuana on your  brain  is  sedative abstract cannabis or marijuana  became legal for recreational use in  colorado in 2012 and this legislation  has created both challenges and  opportunities in medicine more patients  are using cannabis and more patients are  now willing to admit cannabis use than  in the past so this increases the  likelihood that they will be forthcoming  about drug use during medical  questioning cannabis use may have  implications during medical care  including procedural sedation  some of you might know if you have built  up a tolerance to painkillers  before you go in to have surgery  you could have the horrifying experience  of going through surgery without  sedation without relief from pain  because your body was already accustomed  to such a high dose of that type of drug  on a daily basis so it's important to be  honest with your doctors and the doctors  may not know how to sedate you or how to  provide you with anesthesia  if that is the case  so the inquiry that this  medical journal article is pursuing is  the question of whether or not marijuana  use produces a similar  tolerance  to sedatives to sedation can you guess  can you guess what the answer is medical  records from 250 patients were reviewed  and researchers found that compared with  people who did not regularly use  cannabis people who regularly use  cannabis required an amount of sedation  for endoscopic procedures that was  significantly higher it's very difficult  to challenge the glamorization of drug  use in our culture and in our times i  know better than anyone  i know just as well as you that by  presenting drugs as something dangerous  and exciting and edgy you could end up  glamorizing them all the more even when  you're really trying to warn people this  can ruin your life  marijuana is in some ways the most  storied drug in our culture right now  and if you doubt that keep in mind bob  marley was one of the most influential  musicians of the 20th century i think  snoop dogg not far behind how many songs  were on the radio  even when the drug was illegal you know  during my youth  constantly reiterating  catchphrase smoke weed every day  constantly glamorizing this as something  rebellious as something liberating and  in many many cases drug is believed to  even have kind of profound philosophical  significance in people's lives i  recently criticized one of the leaders  of black lives matter for taking that  position  wouldn't it be in some ways useful if we  could bring marijuana down to earth by  classifying it as and insisting on it  being  not recreational  [Laughter]  not even a hallucinogen because for most  people it isn't not psychedelic now  there's a storied word what if we could  start  to educate the public about marijuana  addiction  as something that really is analogous to  getting hooked on sedatives getting  hooked on sleeping pills  getting hooked on painkillers and as  with all of these other forms of  addiction  the telltale sign is  that you build up  tolerance you need more and more of a  dose  in order to even get  the same response  wanted to  talk about uh the antidepressants i'm on  why i took them  um briefly go over my history of  depression  side effects i've had stuff like that  it's been a little over a year now i  think  um or close to a year  i can't remember my memory is [ __ ]  right now but it's been um close to a  year that i've been on antidepressants  uh my doctor recommended  that i try an snr  which stands for serotonin  norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor  so it's not an ssri it's an snri and  it's called pristique  i believe the generic name for the  medication is dixeniflaxin  as soon as i started taking it literally  the first day  i felt normal it was weird  when i'm in a depressive state i feel  like  i can't experience any joy or happiness  activities that i normally really like  i just feel nothing  it feels like i'm completely dead inside  and there's no reason to exist and i  just had this  constant pain of existence and  literally the first day i started taking  them  i felt good  it was weird i was like playing video  games and i'm like oh my god i'm  enjoying this  uh i was relaxing watching movies with  jasmine and i was and i just felt like  wow i'm enjoying myself and i'm happy so  they're not like literal magic happy  pills  that um i don't know it's not like a  drug like high where you get some sort  of temporary  euphoric sense it just makes  at least for me this is my experience on  them it just makes me feel  normal  as far as side effects though  had some issues with side effects  recently and i'll get into that but  when i first started taking them i was  on 50 milligrams a day  um initially what i noticed was really  really bad fatigue uh that ended up  going away after about a week um as soon  as i'd take like a pill it would pretty  much knock me out  and i'd have to sleep for at least three  or four hours that went away after about  a week  and i had  sort of normal wakefulness during the  day  i could sleep fine  um i also noticed a reduction in penile  sensitivity just slightly  it wasn't harder to get an erection but  it  was just a slight slight reduction in  sensitivity it was a little tiny bit  harder to orgasm  but again that went away after about two  weeks  and  that was oh yeah and uh hunger my  appetite went down massively that took a  little  little while longer to normalize  i just did not feel hungry and i had to  make sure that i planned my meals ahead  of time i couldn't rely on just normal  hunger signals to tell me when to eat  and that took about a month to normalize  now the only problem i've had recently  i ended up upping the dose of the  medication from 50 milligrams to 100  milligrams  the reason that ended up happening was  um  i ended up having um  like  psychotic symptoms for a week i was  having hallucinations  um i was just acting very erratically  and um  i went to the doctor to talk about it  because obviously that's pretty  concerning  uh she recommended that i up the dose of  the medication uh again from 50  milligrams to 100 milligrams  turns out i i i guess i still have to  figure it out but i don't think it was  necessary i think i was just suffering  from cabin fever  um i have been getting a really annoying  side effect from the prosthetic  medication i'm on  which is just uh insane exhaustion  at 100 milligrams for whatever reason  i'm just [ __ ] tired constantly no  matter how much i sleep  no matter how much i rest um  even when i don't train i sleep all day  and i just relax i'm still just dead  tired  and that's one of the reasons why i  haven't been posting many videos um well  any videos really even my streams i  haven't been setting up goals on the  stream to stream longer because  i'm just dead [ __ ] tired constantly  and i might just have  like a really really bad wave of fatigue  where i just can't keep streaming  [Music]  oh god i'm so tired  [Music]  oh why does this happen  [Music]  [Music]  it happened the other day where i was  planning to do a really long stream at  least 12 hours but i think at  like around four or five hours i was  just dead  and i had to uh just  call it off and just sleep  and one last thing i wanted to talk  about uh if you're ever on a medication  like this do not miss doses holy [ __ ]  um really bad idea so because of the  fatigue  it's super annoying like i can't do  anything right um sometimes i even  struggle like getting up to train  so um  i thought okay what if i just take two  days off the medication and  i'll see if i have any more energy  because the fatigue was just frustrating  me so much i literally couldn't get up  to do anything  so i took two days off of taking my meds  really bad idea uh as soon as i did that  like on the second day i had really  really strong suicidal urges i came  within an inch of attempting suicide  and i had to ask jasmine to hide all of  the sharp objects in the house  i decided to take antidepressants out of  pure desperation  i wasn't actually expecting them to work  so  activation of mania hypomania i don't  have that  cardiovascular cerebral disease  this is all for sure about a week  like  like like isil again you can look at  like this is the side effects of [ __ ]  vitamin c like  you don't know what you're talking about  you you can  find side effects of any medication  so  like any food any food ingredients  this doesn't mean anything  note the use of the passive voice he  says it went away as opposed to i  developed increasing tolerance to the  effect of the drug  um  i  didn't  that's not what happened  he he's saying i developed increasing  tolerance well  no just those side effects went away  yeah he's just  he's just mixing around my words  so um  i had headaches i think when i first  started taking pristiq um i had a little  bit of reduction penile sensitivity [ __ ]  like that and then it ended up going  away i didn't get headaches the  tiredness drowsiness went away  um  penile sensitivity went to normal  so  he's saying i developed increasing  tolerance well  no just those side effects went away the  only reason my doctor recommended i up  my dose was because i randomly ended up  getting  [Music]  like uh symptoms of psychosis where i  was  feeling paranoid  um i was having some hallucinations  so she thought it might be a good idea  to try it up the dose and it wasn't i  just had extreme exhaustion so then i  went back down to a lower dose but uh  the symptoms of psychosis went away  after a week so  okay well uh isil's [ __ ] i mean  really people like to disrespect my crew  but the fact is that you know my name  and i don't know you it's easy to say  that science and religion  are two different things  it's a little bit less easy to recognize  the extent to which we live with  what we think of  as science  and what we think of  as religion  in exactly the same way if you have a  friend if you have a family member  who believes in the christian faith ask  them just try to ask them  how is it possible for you to believe  that this book is the sacred word of god  sometimes it's one thing to believe the  whole book cover to cover is the word of  god it's another thing to dismiss the  whole book say the whole thing is  nonsense  but you know what really makes it  intolerable to break bread with  christians  is that they pick and choose  not just within the same tome but  sometimes from one sentence to the next  within say uh ecclesiastes within  paul's epistle to the romans and so  somehow  this sentence they believe in and not  that one  they pick and choose when  the sacred word of god matters and when  it does not what i have to ask you  richard is  what is your relationship  to science isn't it fair to say at this  point  that you only use science  when it suits your purpose  to bully  and denigrate and humiliate others  isn't it true  that you've spent years  doing selective readings  of research  of studies of peer-reviewed paper  only  when it suits your agenda  and that your agenda  most of the time  is really just to hurt someone else's  feelings and that when  the findings of science are inconvenient  for you  when they hurt  your feelings  just like one of those religious people  who consciously or unconsciously  filters  the passages of the bible they're  willing to take seriously when it  challenges your emotional equilibrium  you have no interest  in science at all  one of my other colleagues one of my  other contemporaries one of my other  rivals here on youtube is called  unnatural vegan  she's really interested  in science  when it lets her  preen and  boast make a great public display of her  intellectual superiority over others  but when it makes her feel stupid  when it makes her feel powerless when it  makes her feel immoral when it makes her  feel like she's placing her own health  in danger  when she's placing her own  infant child's health in danger when  she's damaging the health of her own son  or daughter  and there are peer-reviewed papers that  back that up she has  just as little interest  in seeing it just as little capacity to  hear it  as the christians in dealing with the  fact  that their sacred text  endorses  slavery  [Music]